---
layout: post
title: "Udacity CS101, Lesson 6"
date: 2016-02-09
---
I finished up Lesson 6 on [Udacity's Intro to Computer Science course](https://www.udacity.com/courses/cs101). The main lesson introduced the recursive definition for procedures. Any procedure that can be written iteratively can also be written recursively and vice versa. The recursive definition can be easier to understand but generally is more expensive to execute. At first glance the recursive definition resembles a circular definition because the recursive definition calls itself. It isn't circular though, as long as it has a base case so that the procedure can actually return a result.

I enjoyed the first half of this lesson because recursive procedures are interesting and were new to me in programming. I also enjoyed this lesson because of the references to fibonacci numbers. My master's thesis included fibonacci numbers and their relationship to the golden ratio. I really enjoy the parts of programming that activate the math part of my brain. 

I was able to complete three of the five questions in the Problem Set for this lesson quickly (#1, 2, and 4). I think I can solve #3 with a little more effort, but it wasn't one that I could solve at the get go. Question 5 and the entire second half of the Lesson 6 were boring to me. They was a lot of hand holding in order for us to be able to write procedures for a web crawler and the whole thing left my head spinning. I found it difficult to engage with the material, maybe because I take search engines for granted!

The Q&A to Lesson 6 included a link to an advanced Udacity course that really intrigues me. It is [CS212: Design of Computer Programs: Programming Principles](https://www.udacity.com/course/design-of-computer-programs--cs212). I will need more experience writing Python before beginning. I will put it in my queue of courses to work on soon.
